So welcome back, guys.
Next, we will going to discuss streams, so what are streams?
A stream is a data structure which is used to create the Elvis as well as data structure.
Help us to decode or read that Elvis at the receiving machines.
So creating a Thirlby is called serialisation of the data, whereas decoding that the Elvis or reading
the tea Elvis is called the serialization of the data.
So this data structure is called stream.
So this extreme resembles to a typewriter that is like in a typewriter.
We start with the next line when there is no space left in the current line.
Similarly, in the stream, we keep on feeding the data in the buffer until the buffer is complete and
when there is no more space in the buffer to accommodate new data, then we double the size of the buffer.
So you will understand it more in the coming slides.
For now, just understand that stream data structure works exactly same as a typewriter.
So extreme data structure is also called as serialized buffer, so it is a very simple data structure.
You can see that the stream data structure or serialized buffer can be defined as follows.
So it's a pointer to the buffer which actually stored the data.
And it is the size of the buffer and it points to the byte number in the buffer will the next data will
be copied in the buffer.
So let us try to visualize the functioning of this data structure so you can see that this is data structure
has three members.
So you can see that we have a memory buffer and B points to the start of the memory buffer.
The buffer is filled with data from BI to zero to the byte number indicated by next.
Right.
So this much greater portion of this memory is filled with data, whereas the green portion of this
memory is the available memory and you can see the size of the entire buffer is represented by size.
Right.
So these are the three members which represents the civilized buffer or streams.
B is a pointer to the start of the buffer size is the actual size of the entire buffer and next points
to the end of the data in the buffer.
When new data will come, it will be copied in this Pseudolus buffer.
From the next position, so let us discuss some APIs that is related to the operations of serialized
buffer.
The first API is the in serialized buffer, so this API does nothing, but it only initializes the serialized
So you can see inside this function, we take the memory which represents this data structure, and
we again take the memory which actually stores the data in the serialized buffer.
So by default, the size of the memory which distorts the actual data, we have taken it as hundred
bytes.
And therefore, the size field is initialise 200, because we have taken the default size of this buffer
as hundred bytes, therefore sizes initialise two hundred and the next field is initialized to zero.
That is the starting of the buffer.
So the usage of this API is very simple.
Just declare a pointer to the SITILIDES buffer and simply call the init civilized buffer API with the
address of the pointer.
So this pointer will be updated and it will point to the serialized buffer object after initialize buffer
API is called.
So this is the buffer that will be returned when intact, civilized buffer is called, you can see that
the buffer pointer points to the start of the memory buffer and the next feel points to zero.
That is the next data that will be copied in this buffer will be copied from the zero white and the
default size of the buffer is 100.
That is the center memory chunk is of 100 bytes.
So this is the serialized buffer that you get after calling the init serialized buffer.
So looks pretty much simple.
Now, let us discuss the API, which is called to put the data inside the serialised buffer, right.
So you can see the signature of this API.
Is that the first argument is the pointer to the serialized buffer into which you are going to place
the data.
The second argument is a pointer to any data which you want to copy in the civilized buffer.
Right.
So this stereotype is of character.
And the last argument is the number of whites that you want to copy in the serialized buffer.
So let's say we have the new data, some new memory, or we have some useful data that is placed in
this memory chunk and let the size of this data is invite.
And we have a pointer, say, data, which points to the start of this new data.
Now, our goal of this serialized data is to place this new data inside the civilise before.
Now, at this point of time, you can see that the state of the serialized buffer is such that the next
number of bytes.
Are already occupied in the serializable floor by the data.
Because your next is set to hear.
Because the next value is set to this memory location inside the serialised buffer.
So next is nothing, but it is the offset.
Inside the buffer.
Right, so any data which will be copied into the serialized buffer will be copied from the byte number
represented by next new.
Right.
So when we will copy this new data into the civilized buffer, you can see it will be copied from the.
Next bite, no, and because we have copied the new data, the next value should be updated to point
to the start of the available memory inside the buffer.
Right.
So you can see it is pretty much looks like a typewriter, you keep on copying the data in the buffer
and you keep on updating the next value to point to the last bite of occupied data in the civilized
buffer.
Right.
So I request you to go through this entire logic.
This is very much pretty much simple logic, right?
So the things to note here is that if there is no space to accommodate a new data industrialized buffer,
we double the size of the entire buffer while preserving the existing data.
So this is existing content.
We achieved this using real system which changes the size of the allocated memory.
But at the same time, preserves that data, which is present in that memory, so we achieved this using
a lock system called.
Right.
So just like in a typewriter, when you are not left with any space in the current line, you go to
the next line in case of the serializable for when you are not left with any available space to accommodate
any new external data.
Then we double the size of the buffer.